Description of the Study Design
The running intervention of this study was organized into seven units of about 50-60 minutes each, conducted over a time period of two weeks. The standardized running route lead through a mostly forest area at a local recreation area and was about five kilometers long. The design of this study included two groups of participants who were tested at three time points of assessment. A sample of 68 participants was recruited for this study. Out of this sample, 48 participants completed all required MRI scans and psychometric assessments and participated in the running intervention. We primarily recruited rather unathletic people showing no or only low regular engagement in sports activities. Participants indicated to exercise about half an hour per week (M = 0.53; SD = 1.2). Participants were randomly assigned to two intervention groups, which received the running intervention time-delayed. The first group ("intervention group") performed the running intervention between the first (t1) and the second test session (t2), while the second group ("wait group") received the training between t2 and the third test session (t3).At each time point of assessment (t1, t2, and t3), the German version of the Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale (CES-D; Hautzinger et al., 2012) was administrated to test intervention related changes in depressive symptoms. 
Available Data / Folder Structure / Data Dictionary
The dataset include the MRI data of n=48 participants who completed all three MRI scans (at t1, t2, t3). Specifically, for each single participant (e.g., “sub-season101”) 3 subfolders of MRI data (“ses-1”, “ses-2”, and “ses-3”, for each time point of assessment) are available. 
The CES-D scores for each participant and time point of assessment (CES-D_1, CES-D_2, CES-D_3) can be found in the “phenotype” folder (“CES-D.tsv”) 
In addition, the file “participants.tsv” contains the grouping variable (either “1” for training group 1 or “2” for training group 2), along with age (in years), sex (“F” female, “M” male), size (in meter) and weight (in kg) of the participants. 
For quality assurance we performed the mriqc-pipline (https://mriqc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) for all subjects, which can be found under der folder “derivatives”/subfolder “mriqc”. 
The raw BIDS data was created using BIDScoin 3.0.8 All provenance information and settings can be found in ./code/bidscoin For more information see: https://github.com/Donders-Institute/bidscoin
